# ImgurCodeChallenge

## Case Study

#### New Post: make sure you can upload an image and that it takes you to that page after.
* logic
    1. Navigate to Main Screen by click on the 'imgur' area in the upper left position 
    2. Click on the new post button
    3. Select Local image file (Reading data from "steps.csv" pass "Parameter1"(contains image file name from images) to the method.)
    4. Enter the post title (Reading data from "steps.csv" pass "Parameter2"(contains post title) to the method.)
    5. Save URL TO the report
    6. Write data to report if any of step from 1 to 5 occurs error
#### Search: make sure you can search, and that the results are tied to your query
* logic
    1. Navigate to Main Screen by click on the 'imgur' area in the upper left position 
    2. Enter Text into the search field.
    3. Click on the search button
    4. Saving the HTML page and screenshot in the output folder
    5. Write data to report if any of step from 1 to 5 occurs error
#### “Random Mode” function: test that the random button works and takes you to a new page without errors.
* logic
    1. Select all web element on current screen which tag equal to "Button"
    2. Randomly Select One Button from step 1.
    3. Save HTML page and Screenshot(Before) 
    4. Click on the Random Button(Write to report if Button not functioning)
    5. Save HTML page and Screenshot(After)
    6. Write data to report if the button is working and ask the user to manually to compare those screenshot/HTML file.

## Folder Structure
* .idea: Rubymine IDE Project Config folder
* bin:
  * main.rb: Framework Entry Point
  * main.exe: Windows Executable File Generated by "main.rb"
* config: Framework Configuration Folder
  * envConfig.yml: Environment Configuration.
  * steps.csv: Step to Process Configuration.
  * pageObjects.csv: Webelement Configuration.
* images: contain images user use to create a new post.
* lib: Framework Library Files.
  * driver.rb: Main Testing Driver
  * methods.rb: Supporting method
  * pageObject.rb: Screen Object Management File
* output: Automation Testing Report.
* webDriver:
  * chromedriver.exe: Chrome Selenium Webdriver.
  * firefoxdriver.exe: Firefox Selenium Webdriver.
* Gemfile: Ruby Gem Management File
* README.md: Framework Markdown file with Explanation
* RunMe.bat: For windows user to trigger the framework.

## Main Driver Logic:
  1. Open selenium webdriver
  2. Navigate to "https://imgur.com/"
  3. Perform random button check in the main screen and save result.
  4. Create new post, and save URL to report
  5. Perform random button check after new post screen and save result.
  6. Perform the search function and save the result.
  7. Perform random button check after search screen and save result.
  8. Automation Report file(report.csv) will be available under output/{execution date}/{execution time} folder


## How to Execute
* open "envConfig.yml" under ImgurCodeChallenge\config folder.
   * Choice your preferred browser to process automation testing (chrome/firefox).
   * Save and close the file.
* Method 1 (run from command line, work for Windows and Mac):
  * Install all Install all ruby, ruby gem, and software under Pre-Requirement Section.
  * Then run "Ruby main.rb" command under ImgurCodeChallenge\bin folder.
* Method 2 (run from batch + exe file, only for windows user):
  * Double click on "RunMe.bat" under ImgurCodeChallenge folder(Not Necessary to Install Ruby and Ruby Library)
  

## Pre-Requirement (library and Software)
* ruby 2.4.4p296 (2018-03-28 revision 63013) [x64-mingw32]
* gem 'watir', '~> 6.14'
* gem 'watir-webdriver', '~> 0.9.9'
* gem 'colorize', '~> 0.8.1'
* gem 'bundler', '~> 1.11', '>= 1.11.2'
* Microsoft Excel Office
* **Internet Connection**


## Know-Deviation
1. I have confirmed all button(web element tag equal to "Button") under the new post and search screen are not working, those button elements are not visible by the user, issue has logged to the report.
2. Depending on Internet speend, you might need to change the wait time config in "pageObjects.csv" file.
